---
sidebar: true
---

## Introduction

[Astroplan](https://astroplan.readthedocs.io) is an open-source package
affiliated with the famous community-powered [Astropy](http://astropy.org/).
Astroplan aims to help astronomers plan observations, similarly to iObserve and
Arcsecond.io try to achieve.

One major difference with us is that Astroplan leaves you the responsibility for
all the "plumbing" or "app" code. That is, it provides all the necessary
information to plan observations indeed. However, there is no infrastructure nor
app code to help you go much beyond a few observations without having to write
(and organise and maintain) lots of non-scientific code. If you need to create
dozens of observations, for dozens of observing runs, all this code is up to
you.

For astronomers loving to write their own code, it is certainly a good
solution (and we know many of them in that situation). But even in this case,
you are left with lots of work such as maintaining your code, testing it to
avoid regressions, finding a place to store targets, target lists, organise your
plots and figures and so on.

Arcsecond.io and its main Pro Tool "iObserve" are developed since many years
precisely to help astronomers avoid re-inventing the wheel whatever their
knowledge of code. There is one key difference of course. Using a complete tool
such as iObserve has a (small) price. But we think we have come up with a very
affordable model for professionals and even Ph.D. students and undergrads!
See our [Pricing](https://www.arcsecond.io/pricing) page for more details.

::: info We provide yearly subscriptions for iObserve on the web. These
subscriptions are entirely compatible with any (US) University administration.
We already set up such subscriptions with a University Physics Department in
Arizona.
<a href="mailto:team@arcsecond.io">Email us</a> to know more and set up yours.
:::

## Nights...
